I have had so many experiences throughout my life of having both fixed and growth mindsets, that it's very difficult for me to come up with specific examples. The article consistently implied that people either have fixed or growth mindsets, but truthfully, I think everyone has both, just at different times and situations. The people who have fixed mindsets probably don't even realize they have it, or that there is a difference between the growth and fixed mindsets at all; it is a subconscious thing.

I think that the fixed mindset is partially due to human nature. People like to put things, and people, into specific categories because of the convenience of doing so. Thinking of certain people as inherently "attractive" or "unattractive", "smart" or "stupid", "mean" or "nice", etc., is easier to believe than that human psychology is very complex and opinions like these are inherently subjective to individual perceivers, which is what the actual truth related to personality traits tends to be.

Of course, my belief that the fixed mindset is natural is not a defense for it, as I believe that the fixed mindset is very toxic and should definitely be discouraged. Making others, or yourself, feel stupid just discourages success at work (of any kind) that might otherwise get done well.

If I were to tell you that I never have a fixed mindset about things, that would be fallacious, because that very statement contradicts itself. However, I will say that I try and focus on having an open mind and focusing on growth rather than failure.

In this course, and in the programming scene in general, I imagine that a challenge for me might be to go back and fix/refactor old code after my knowledge on certain subjects have increased. My first thoughts when that has happened in the past tended to be: "Why on earth do I have to go back and fix that? I thought it was perfect before! What a pain." Of course, that is a thought based on emotion and not reason. What really should be done in that situation, especially if the code is important for some reason, is to go back and fix or refactor it based on the new knowledge I've gained. This will not only make that code run better, but it will also give meaningful practice in implementing the new and better knowledge.

I'd like to also share that I believe, and always have believed—and this belief I had always thought would be controversial in the realm of psychology—is that the concept of "intelligence" is a fantasy, an abstraction made up by humans for convenience of ranking individuals by cognitive ability, and is inherently unmeasurable. I try not to ever call people "smart" or especially "stupid". The truth is that people have many different skills, many different subskills on top of those skills, many combinations of skills, and so much potential to acquire new skills that they never even thought they could get. As complex and differential as people really are, it would take quite a lot of evidence to convince me that people's cognitive abilities as a whole can be accurately assigned a representative value or label. I think, however, that people's desire to learn, rather than ability to learn, has more potential to be measurable.
